			Database Session

Data:- The raw facts and figures are called data.

Information:- The meaningfull data is called information.

Database:- The collection of information is known as database.

Database Management System:- The database management system is
an application software which is used to manage database.
It provide facilities to create, access and manipulate database.


E.g. Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access, MySql, Sybase, DB2 and etc
are some popular DBMS.

SQL (Structured Query Language):- The SQL is stand for structured
query language supplies set of commands to perform database
operations. Based on database operations the SQL is categorized
in four parts:-

1. DDL (Data Definition Language)
2. DML (Data Manipulation Language)
3. DCL (Data Control Language)
4. TCL (Transaction Control Language)


Commands of DDL:-
i.) create:- The create command is used to create a new 
database object.
ii.) alter:- The alter command is used to modify database 
object.
iii.) drop:- The drop command is used to delete database 
object.
iv.) truncate:- The truncate command is used to delete all
data from database object. You cann't rollback the truncate.
v.) backup:- The backup command is used to take backup of the
database.
vi.) restore:- The restore command is used to reconstruct
database from its backup file.

Commands of DML:-

i.) insert:- The insert command is used to insert data into
database object.
ii.) delete:- The delete command is used to delete records
from database object.
iii.) update:- The update command is used to modify data of 
database object.
iv.) select:- The select command is used to retrieve data from
database object.

Commands of DCL:-

i.) grant:- The grant command is used to give priviliges 
(rights) to database user.
ii.) revoke:- The revoke command is just opposite to grant
command it used to take off rights from database user.
iii.) rename:- The rename command is used to change the name
of database object.

Commands of TCL:-

i.) commit
ii.) rollback
iii.) savepoint



































































